I think of my life is being built up basically of two different kinds
of stem careers the first was my stem career in cryptology stem careers
in cryptology are broken into subsections in the first one I'd like
to talk about is kind of the electronic warfare section these the
papal then analyze well emissions from varying kinds of electronic
year somewhere intended emissions like raiders like some are not like
keyboards you met and they study the characteristics of those waveforms
and try to get intelligence out of them you also have people
who are collection specialist in that feel they have to know communication
techniques and capabilities in the physics behind them for instance
and they do the collection then you have the analyst in these
frequently or people who specialize in both encryption encoding of
information and they're very heavily laden with people who are excellent
in mass so you get people doing that then you get a group the linguist
in the linguist are probably the furthest from the stem fields
at per se in that little more you work they do is more in the other
kind of liberal arts section of things but even they have to have
a good grasp of mathematics because the they assist both the collection
people and the analytic people doing their jobs they're doing so
there are a range of fields and tell in computer science let's it's
limited to computer science research there's a lot of feel range there
to largely in who can work for computer science research can be
done in universities it can be a little softer or unit can be hardware
oriented you can do the same kinds of things for industries you
can be a programmer or you can be a developer of hard work my younger
brother for instance went to work for IBM are developing hardware
for laptop computers and then with IBM soldier laptop business to Lenovo
in China he worked over there and flew to China and Japan all the
time developing here's he he got a PhD in computer science so that
was what he did with his degree a so wide range of things in computer
science research alone as well as thinkable service and the salesman
structural duties that you could have in those fields